welcome to tech photoblog this is
episode number 60 this week I'm going to
be talking about the new camera acts
five dot for software for the camera
acts five and the camera acts five
shield so this new version of the
software has a lot of major improvements
since camera acts five dot 3 which was
released about 11 months ago but all of
the major new features that are in this
software have been released already in
beta software so that people in the
community could you know test them and
stuff so I'll go over sort of the major
new features quickly but I won't go into
them in detail because they're our
previous videos about all of the new
major software features that have been
added but the nice thing is now
basically at this point I'm saying I
tested them enough that I'm you know
sufficiently convinced that there are no
major bugs left that I'll make a new
official release which means new
versions of the camera acts will come
installed with this new software and
people who want to just go to the
standard programming page will be able
to go there and get this version of the
software and it's you know basically
just better tested by myself and people
who've helped out in the community to
make sure that all of the major bugs
have been ironed out one other thing I
wanted to sort of mention quickly in
this video because I've been getting
this question a lot in the past couple
of weeks is when is the camera axe going
to be back in stock and currently I'm
saving it's about a week but that that's
a pretty aggressive timescale it
definitely could turn out to be a little
bit longer than that the problem is
basically that the pipeline for a
hardware to get made is you know pretty
long and I kind of ran into the chinese
new year and that delayed things a lot
longer than i thought i thought that you
know i'd be able to keep the pipeline
for Hardware filled and the store
wouldn't run on a quantity out of stock
but clearly has and I'm definitely
working on it this has caught me to
really appreciate all of those big
companies out there who keep you know
their various
projects in stock and stores across the
world it's kind of an amazingly
difficult thing that I'd never really
realized until I started managing
hardware and you know it's a tricky
business and I apologize to people and
hopefully within the next few weeks
there should be some more camera acts is
in stock so like I said all of the major
software improvements that I'm going to
mention here have been discussed in more
detail in previous videos but I just
sort of want to give everybody a quick
reminder of what those features are or a
quick introduction if you haven't been
watching the past videos so there were a
bunch of new menus added these menus
aren't installed by default but they're
pretty easy to enable and fact very easy
all you have to do is go to the first
lines of the code and remove some
backslashes that will enable those new
menus they're pretty self-explanatory
based on their names but just a quick
review of the ones that I've added since
camera acts five dot three software is a
fireworks menu which helps take photos
of fireworks a flash test menu which
helps you measure the lag of your
flashes there's a roller coaster menu
which is pretty specialized they did it
for a guy in the UK who runs an
amusement park and there's a dongle menu
which I showed how you can use it to use
a smartphone like an android phone or
iphone to trigger the camera acts via
the camera or various sensors and we
used it with the trigger trap mobile
software so those are the new software
menus I'm not going to go over those
again also to sort of the core menus
that are installed by default I added
some new things I'll just mine people of
those there's in the valve menu I
actually made the most changes I did a
complete rework of the valve menu to
make it easier for
people to navigate basically now as you
you picked the number of valves in this
first event menu most people use just
one but you can use up to four valves
and then that impacts what you'll see on
the next pages basically I remove a
bunch of options that you don't need if
you only select one valve so that people
don't get lost in the long menuing
system I also added this flash based on
drop one so basically that's a timing
option some people prefer this the
default used to be no in fact the only
option used to be no but that's where
the flash delay is based on sort of the
last drop but it does make it a bit
easier to do some calculations and
figure out when you want things
happening if you set this to yes so I
made that the default also another big
addition I did on this version is this
auto calibrate mode so this will take
you through setting up your valve so
that you can get colliding drops without
having to do the math yourself it just
kind of you hit the select button a few
times and you in a few minutes will have
your water droplets colliding here's all
of the settings for valve one if you had
more valves enabled you'd see more
options here another thing I added was
this use flash one port as you can
select either camera which is the
default so that means you want a camera
cable plugged into this port some people
don't need it to trigger their camera
and they just wanted to have another
flash attached so you can turn this to
flash and then you should have a flash
plugged into here and you can have two
flashes without having something like
the multi flash
and another thing i added was on the
intervalometer menu now when you
activate you can do manual grampians so
basically this means that branding is
sort of adjusting the ball value so you
can actually use the up and down arrows
to change the bulb setting you can see
it change in there so this is nice if
you know you're taking pictures of a
sunset or something and it keeps getting
dimmer and dimmer and you want to
increase your bulb duration between each
photo you can do that manually now and
you know other than that I fixed a bunch
of bugs and things but you know that's I
think the major things I added since the
five dot three software and of course
anybody who has a current tamaracks can
go to the programming page which I'll
put a link to in the show notes get the
software and start using it I think it's
a much improved version of the camera
software and I hope people enjoy it
thanks for watching